.Dd February 20, 2026
.Dt FLUXSNAP 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm fluxsnap
.Nd Windows-style snap assist for Fluxbox on X11
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl c Ar config
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
runs as a lightweight X11 helper for snapping windows while dragging.
When the configured modifier key is held and a window is dragged with the configured mouse button,
the screen dims as soon as the modifier is held and a light snap preview appears while dragging.
While dragging inside a snap zone, the target window is live-resized so placement is visible before release.
Releasing the drag applies the snap layout through EWMH move/resize requests for correct client sizing.
.Pp
Snapping is based on the EWMH workarea when available, so docks/panels are respected.
Gap spacing is applied once between adjacent snapped windows.
.Pp
Supported snap zones:
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
Left / right half
.It
Top-left, top-right, bottom-left, bottom-right quarters
.It
Top-center maximize
.It
Top-left and top-right split shortcuts
.El
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl c Ar config
Path to a configuration file.
.It Fl h
Show usage help.
.El
.Sh CONFIGURATION
The config file uses
.Ar key=value
syntax.
.Pp
Default lookup order:
.Bl -enum -compact
.It
.Pa $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/fluxsnap/config
.It
.Pa ~/.config/fluxsnap/config
.It
.Pa /usr/local/etc/fluxsnap.conf
.El
.Pp
Supported keys:
.Bl -tag -width mouse_button
.It Ic modifier
Super, Mod4, Alt, Mod1, Ctrl, Control, or Shift.
.It Ic mouse_button
Mouse button number (1 to 5).
.It Ic edge_threshold
Pixels near screen edges used to trigger edge snapping.
.It Ic top_band
Pixels from top edge used as top snap band.
.It Ic gap
Outer gap in pixels for snapped windows.
.El
.Sh INSTALLATION
Install required dependencies first:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
doas pkg install libX11 pkgconf
.Ed
.Pp
For FreeBSD-style local install:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
make
doas make install
.Ed
.Pp
This installs:
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
.Pa /usr/local/bin/fluxsnap
.It
.Pa /usr/local/etc/fluxsnap.conf.sample
.It
.Pa /usr/local/man/man1/fluxsnap.1
.It
.Pa /usr/local/share/examples/fluxsnap
.El

.Sh FLUXBOX INTEGRATION
.Nm
installs Fluxbox integration examples and a profile helper:
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
.Pa /usr/local/bin/fluxsnap-profile
.It
.Pa /usr/local/share/examples/fluxsnap/fluxbox/menu.inc
.It
.Pa /usr/local/share/examples/fluxsnap/fluxbox/keys.sample
.It
.Pa /usr/local/share/examples/fluxsnap/fluxbox/init.sample
.El
.Pp
Merge the sample files into
.Pa ~/.fluxbox/menu ,
.Pa ~/.fluxbox/keys ,
and
.Pa ~/.fluxbox/init
then run:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
fluxbox-remote reconfigure
.Ed

.Sh EXAMPLES
Start from Fluxbox startup script:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
fluxsnap &
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr fluxbox 1
.Sh AUTHORS
Written for Fluxbox/X11 snapping workflows.
